---
title: Column Autosizing
description: LyteNyte Grid can automatically size columns to fit their content.
  Columns do not need to be visible to be autosized. The grid uses custom
  heuristic functions to determine optimal widths based on content.
---

Autosizing can consider header width, cell content width, or both. For
each column, you can define `autosizeHeaderFn` and `autosizeCellFn` to
control width calculations. If you omit these, LyteNyte Grid uses a
default text measurement function.

Because LyteNyte Grid emphasizes custom header and cell renderers for
highlighting key content, we recommend providing matching autosize
functions when using custom renderers to ensure accurate sizing.

## Autosizing API

Use the `api.autosizeColumns` method to autosize all columns or a
selected subset.

!demo:Autosizing Api="./demos/column-autosizing"

The autosize method returns an `AutosizeResult` object with key-value
pairs where keys are column `id`s and values are the new sizes. It also
supports a "dry run" mode that calculates widths without applying them.
For details, see the [API Reference](/docs/reference).

## Header Autosizing

Use `autosizeHeaderFn` on a column to define a custom header autosizing
function. This is helpful when you want headers included in width
calculations.

!demo:Header Autosizing="./demos/column-autosizing-header"

## Cell Autosizing

`autosizeCellFn` controls how LyteNyte Grid calculates optimal cell
width. Each column can define its own function. If you use custom cell
renderers, provide a matching `autosizeCellFn` for accuracy.

In the example below, we set the base autosize function to autosize
columns to a width of `150px` fixed. This makes all the columns take the
same width.

!demo:Cell Autosizing="./demos/column-autosizing-cell"

### Virtualization Considerations

LyteNyte Grid uses row virtualization for performance. Only visible rows
are considered in autosizing. If the viewport is not yet initialized,
the grid uses about 50 rows for calculations.

For columns with a known set of possible values, consider an autosize
function that returns the maximum width for those values, regardless of
the visible rows.

## Measure Text Helper

LyteNyte Grid (Core and PRO) exports a `measureText` helper. Use it to
estimate text width when building custom autosize functions.
